 
Content guidelines 
How to write for our product experience 
 
In this guide 
1.​ How we write 
2.​ Style guide 
3.​ Labels and names 
4.​ Legal guidance 
 
In other places... 
●​ Learn how to write UI elements (like buttons or tooltips) under components 
●​ Use our one-pager as a quick reference when you review writing  
●​ Find detailed advice on our brand strategy and voice in our Writer’s Guide  
●​ See how we’re positioning Upwork’s offerings in the Product Marketing 
Message Map 
 
 
 
//////// CUT ////// 
 
 
Legal guidance 
As we build Upwork, it’s important that we make sure we’re following the law and don’t 
accidentally get ourselves into trouble. Our Legal and Policy teams have put these 
guidelines together to help you do that.  
For a quick reference guide to when to check in with Legal (and when it’s not needed), 
take a look through our “When to get guidance” section below. For a quick primer on 
keywords to remove from copy, check out terms to avoid or limit. 
Questions? Just ask your Legal contact or in our slack channel #ask-legal. 
 
When to get guidance 
 
Not every asset requires Legal review.  These guidelines provide guidance on when to 
submit your asset for Legal review versus when teams can feel confident moving 
forward without the Legal team’s review.   
As a starting point, so long as our Legal Principles are followed, Legal generally does 
not need to review: 
●​ Routine emails, such as Marketing Emails encouraging new and current users to 
use the platform, or describing existing products and features (these should only 
be sent to users who have not opted-out of marketing emails); 
●​ How-to articles, that explain existing features on the platform; 
●​ Routine Customer Support communications, i.e. those advising users how to 
flag or report another user or other existing processes. 
So what type of assets do require Legal Review? Use this checklist to determine when 
you should submit your asset for Legal review.  If your answer to any question is “No”, 
skip along to the next question. But be sure to go through each question - even if an 
earlier question requires Legal Review, a later question may also require Legal Review 
and ask you to provide additional information in your Request: 
Language Usage/Content 
1 
 
1.​ Terms to Be Avoided: Are you using any terminology or concept listed here as 
“avoid”? 
a.​ If no -> proceed to next question 
b.​ If yes -> submit for Legal review & provide context for why you believe an 
exception is necessary 
2.​ Terms to Limit: Are you using any terminology or concept listed here as “limit”? 
a.​ If no or only using 1-2 times -> proceed to next question 
b.​ If using 3+ times ->  submit for Legal review & provide context for why 
you believe an exception is necessary 
3.​ Upwork Doing the Work: Does your language indicate that Upwork is the one 
actually doing the work contracted for by the user, or involved in any way in the 
work/deliverable to the client or freelancer, as opposed to the user doing the 
work and/or providing the deliverable? 
a.​ If no -> proceed to next question 
b.​ If yes -> submit for Legal review & provide context for why you believe an 
exception is necessary 
4.​ Upwork as Employer:  Does your language indicate or imply that Upwork 
employs the freelancer (i.e., “Upwork’s freelancers” or “Upwork Talent”)? 
a.​ If no -> proceed to next question 
b.​ If yes -> submit for Legal review & provide context for why you believe an 
exception is necessary 
5.​ Directing Freelancers: Does your language indicate that a user should or must 
do something, act in a certain way or otherwise direct a user to conduct their 
business or perform their work in a particular manner? 
a.​ If no -> proceed to next question 
b.​ If yes -> submit for Legal review & provide context for why you believe an 
exception is necessary 
6.​ Equal Footing: Does your language imply or indicate that clients dictate the 
relationship between clients and freelancers instead of the parties being on 
equal footing? 
a.​ If no -> proceed to next question 
b.​ If yes -> submit for Legal review & provide context for why you believe an 
exception is necessary 
2 
 
7.​ Promises & Guarantees: Are you using language that could be construed as 
making a promise, guarantee, or establishing an expectation? 
a.​ If no -> proceed to next question 
b.​ If yes -> submit for Legal review & provide context for why a promise is 
necessary and reasonable 
8.​ Overselling: Are you using superlative or comparative language, or language 
that could be considered “puffery”? (Examples: “Upwork is the greatest talent 
platform;” “Find the best talent;” etc). 
a.​ If no -> proceed to next question 
b.​ If yes -> include your proof/data points & submit for Legal review 
9.​ Relying on Data: Are you using data? (Examples: “40% of talent…”; “57% more 
likely…”) 
a.​ If no -> proceed to next question 
b.​ If yes -> Has the data been previously approved + is it no more than 2 
years old + is still reasonably accurate ? 
1.​ If yes -> proceed to next question 
2.​ If no (i.e. new data, unsure of accuracy, or older than 2 
years) -> submit for Legal review and provide the rationale 
for the statement + underlying data  
10.​Not Our IP: Does the content use or play off of others’ IP (i.e. music, song, art 
etc.)? 
a.​ If no -> proceed to next question 
b.​ If yes -> submit for Legal review 
i.​
Please specify whether you have permission to use the IP in your 
request and how the permission was obtained. 
11.​User or Third-Party Content: Does the content include User testimonials or 
other User or third-party provided content (i.e. user profiles available only in the 
logged-in view, user messages, any other user-generated content or content 
generated outside of our platform)? 
a.​ If no -> go to next question 
b.​ If yes -> submit for Legal review 
i.​
Please specify whether you have a release from the User and how 
the release was obtained. ​
 
3 
 
12.​Upwork’s IP: Does the content include any Upwork Intellectual Property, 
especially any Upwork trademarks? 
a.​ If no -> go to next question 
b.​ If yes -> please review and comply with the Trademark section below, and 
submit for Legal review if you have any questions.  
Subject Matter 
13.​Marketing to Specific Populations: Are you attempting to target a particular 
group or population, such as for a heritage or identity month? 
a.​ If no -> proceed to next question 
b.​ If yes -> please review and comply with the population-focused 
marketing pointers below, submit for Legal review with appropriate 
context on the campaign.  
14.​Generative AI: Does your copy or product involve or relate to Artificial 
Intelligence? 
a.​ If no -> proceed to next question 
b.​ If yes -> please review and comply with the AI concerns section below, 
and submit for Legal review with appropriate context on the AI feature. 
15.​Legal or Tax Advice: Does the copy discuss anything close to legal or tax 
advice? (Examples: Copy that discusses how to classify freelancer talent, how 
to avoid liability in a particular category or situation, best practices for tax 
compliance etc.) 
a.​ If no -> proceed to next question 
b.​ If yes -> please review the legal advice section below, and submit for 
Legal review with explanation why providing this information is necessary 
or desirable and a proposed disclaimer. Note: Upwork cannot provide 
legal advice to users. To the extent it cannot be justified, removing it 
would be preferable and can help you avoid Legal review. 
16.​New Product or Offering: Is the copy for a new product, feature, test, service, 
or offering? 
a.​ If no -> proceed to next question 
b.​ If yes -> submit for Legal review. Make sure the draft copy already 
complies with these guidelines. Note: as a general matter, Legal should 
be looped into the new Product concept before copy is drafted. If this has 
4 
 
not happened, provide context for the new product, service or offering in 
the submission. 
17.​Updates to Algorithms/Rankings: Does your writing involve updates to our 
algorithms or rankings process? 
a.​ If no -> proceed to next question 
b.​ If yes -> submit for Legal review with explanation of underlying updates to 
algorithms or rankings. Note: as a general matter, Legal should be looped 
into algorithm and rankings updates before copy is drafted. 
18.​New Pricing/Escrow/Compliance Language: Does it discuss updates or 
changes to our pricing or escrow or payments, or describe our compliance 
programs or standards in a way that we have not before? 
a.​ If no -> proceed to next question 
b.​ If yes -> submit for Legal review 
19.​Collection and Use of Data: Are you implementing a new data collection tool or 
writing content that relates to Upwork’s collection and use of user data? 
a.​ If no -> proceed to next question 
b.​ If yes -> Make sure you review and comply with our Data Handling 
Principles and then submit for Legal review. 
20.​Sharing User Data: Are you sharing any personal/user data of talent or clients, 
even in the aggregate, beyond a previously approved data set or to a new 
audience? 
a.​ If no -> does  not need Legal review, unless required by a previous 
question 
b.​ If yes -> submit for Legal review 
How to get guidance 
Make sure to leave time in your roadmap for Legal review, particularly when developing 
a new feature or when any of the circumstances in “When to get guidance” apply.  
Please submit your review request via Hive; we no longer accept routine review 
requests via Slack or email. The Legal team needs to get requests 5 business days in 
advance, although longer is always better.  
Here’s what’s here: 
5 
 
In this guide 
In other places... 
REVISED DRAFT 
Legal guidance 
When to get guidance 
How to get guidance 
How Legal approaches copy 
Legal principles for writing about Upwork 
1. Upwork is the world’s work marketplace, not an employer or staffing agency. 
Clients and Talent use the Upwork platform with Upwork’s support, but Upwork does 
not do the work. 
Freelancers do not work for Upwork. 
We can advise, but do not direct or control. 
Talent and clients are on equal footing. 
How we describe talent on the platform matters. “Talent,” and other alternatives, are 
preferred terms to “freelancer”. 
2. Data handling principles 
How to keep your writing compliant 
1. Terms to avoid 
2. Terms to limit or vary 
3. Details on restricted terms 
4. Technical Stuff 
5. Accuracy & Promises 
6. Trademark Principles 
7. AI Concerns 
 
How Legal approaches copy 
 
The number one thing you should know when working with Legal is that we want you 
and Upwork to be successful while avoiding unnecessary risk.  
The Legal team is flexible, but we aren’t copywriters. There is almost never only one 
way to say something—but there are definitely many ways we can’t say something. In 
cases where we think the writing is not compliant, we may give you alternative ideas. If 
you don’t like an idea, we won’t be offended—let’s work together to find the best 
6 
 
solution. If we can’t agree on something, that’s when we sometimes want to add a little 
legal disclaimer; and no one loves that outcome. So please work with us! 
 
Legal principles for writing about Upwork 
 
When the Legal team shares its view of our work marketplace with you, it’s typically to 
help keep Upwork out of trouble. Here are some important concepts to keep in mind as 
you write about and work on the entire Upwork experience. 
1.​
Upwork is the world’s work marketplace, not an 
employer or staffing agency. 
Clients and Talent use the Upwork platform with Upwork’s support, but Upwork 
does not do the work.  
From a legal perspective, we want it to be clear that the clients and talent are the 
actors on our site, and we are the support. In most cases, the client or the freelancer 
should be the actor in a sentence. We help, assist, and simplify the process of 
connecting with great talent or great clients so they can get work done—but we don’t 
vet, verify or provide projects or talent, nor do we do the work.  That means we should 
almost always be framed as the helper, not the primary actor.   
●​ For example, we can say “our platform will help you find talent,” but we wouldn’t 
say that “Upwork finds the right talent for you.”   
●​ Likewise, we could let talent know that “the more great projects you complete, 
the more your profile rises in the marketplace,” but we wouldn’t tell them that 
“the more great projects you complete, the more we send you projects.” 
Freelancers do not work for Upwork.  
We do NOT employ the talent on our marketplace—they don’t work for us!1 Also, we 
don’t work for the clients on Upwork. Talent are our customers—they pay us, and in 
exchange we provide them services and resources to help them grow their businesses. 
We are not a part of freelancer-client relationships—we don’t guarantee a freelancer’s 
going to be successful or that the client will be happy with the freelancer’s work 
product. We are not a staffing agency. We do not decide which talent work with which 
clients, and vice versa. We should make sure to describe talent accordingly, i.e. they 
are “freelancers on Upwork” or “talent on Upwork” not “Upwork Freelancers” or 
“Upwork Talent”. 
1 Except for talent engaged directly by Upwork to provide work or services directly for Upwork.   
7 
 
We can advise, but do not direct or control.  
A freelancer’s business relationships and decisions about their businesses are theirs to 
make, not ours, so we should communicate our recommendations as optional 
suggestions, not mandates. Talent decide when, where, and with whom to work, and 
how much to charge. We should avoid saying talent must do something, should 
“always” do something, or using the command tense, e.g., “Call your mother.” Instead, 
share common traits and practices that typically generate great outcomes for talent 
and build lasting relationships on our platform. 
Talent and clients are on equal footing.  
When talking about their relationship, make it clear that they should come to an 
agreement on all terms. The client doesn’t “decide” how much a freelancer is paid, they 
make an offer and negotiate. Likewise, talent are open to accept or decline 
opportunities.  Additionally all users need to know how to use Upwork, so take care to 
consider both groups when writing tutorials or other guidance. Even if the feature is 
specific to one of the groups, you should consider how the other audience might read 
or interpret it.  
How we describe talent on the platform matters. “Talent,” and other alternatives, 
are preferred terms to “freelancer”.   
While the independent professionals who use Upwork to offer their services like the 
term “freelancer” because it’s most reflective of the quality of their work, they also have 
mixed feelings about it and Clients sometimes see the terms as lacking in 
professionalism and gravity.  And, from our perspective, other words are more closely 
aligned with the non-commodified work and long-term working relationships we strive 
to promote on our platform. 
 
2.​
Data handling principles 
Our customers rely on us to be trustworthy stewards of their data, and how we handle 
their data matters.  To keep our customers’ trust and avoid inadvertently violating data 
protection laws, Upwork follows these data handling principles: 
●​ We are proactive not reactive. We design and implement the Upwork experience 
to avoid privacy risks before they happen; privacy isn’t an add-on or 
afterthought. 
○​ Do: Proactively anticipate and answer user questions about privacy. As 
users navigate our site, they are thinking about the data they share with 
us, and how we use and protect it. We have an opportunity to show them 
8 
 
we are thinking about that too by proactively building answers into the 
user experience. 
●​ Users are in control of their privacy. Wherever possible, we aim to make it easy 
for our users to make informed decisions around how we use and share their 
data. 
○​ Do: Give our users choices about their data by looking for ways to let 
them decide what data to share with us and others 
●​ We prioritize security from collection through destruction. Our user experience 
considers security from the moment we collect data to the moment we securely 
destroy or delete it. 
○​ Do: Build in security from collection through destruction. Any data we 
collect, store, or share is kept as safe as possible from misuse, loss, or 
inadvertent corruption. Reach out to your information security partners 
(#ask-infosec on Slack) if you need to make decisions about how to 
collect, store, or share data securely. 
○​ Don’t: Collect information you don’t need because you think you might 
need it in the future.  
○​ Don’t: Share data with people who don’t need it, or share more data than 
necessary.  
○​ Don’t: change in-product privacy settings or how broadly we share users’ 
data with others without reaching out to your legal partners in privacy. If 
the privacy settings on any of our features change, we inform our users 
by updating our Privacy Policy and/or sending appropriate in-product or 
external communications with the affected users. By keeping Legal in the 
loop we can make sure to update our Privacy Policy, ToS, or notify users 
some other way. Reach out via the #ask-legal Slack channel for help with 
this, or any other questions     
●​ We are transparent about our privacy practices. Our users and other 
stakeholders understand how data moves through our system and the options 
they have.  
●​ We respect user privacy, and it shows. Our presentation to users should inspire 
confidence because it demonstrates that we take our users’ privacy very 
seriously. 
9 
 
How to keep your writing compliant 
 
No one knows better than you that the words we use matter. The Legal team has 
compiled a list of terms and phrases that you should avoid using to keep Upwork 
compliant and out of legal trouble. Check out the suggested alternatives to use 
instead. If you want to know more about why certain terms are off-limits, read the 
[details on restricted terms.](LINK). 
Remember, if you are using any of the terms to avoid or limit, you must [contact the 
legal team](LINK). 
1.​
Terms to avoid 
 
What you need to know about word choice with a legal lens: 
Terminology Best Practices 
 
❌ Terms to Avoid 
✅ Recommended Alternatives 
Talent and Client 
relationship 
admonish   directions     supervision   
audit       discharge     suspend 
coach       fire            suspension 
coaching    instruct       terminate 
control      instructions   termination 
counsel     [manage](link to details]       train 
demote     monitor       training 
demotion   report to       trainer 
discipline   reprimand     warn  
direct       supervise      warning 
We’ve placed your account on a temporary hold 
 
closed your account 
collaborate with 
describe the work 
end the contract 
review and approve the work 
partner with 
set milestones 
reject the work 
check hours and/or that deadlines will be met 
work with 
Payment 
paycheck 
salary 
wages 
payment guarantee 
charge more 
fee 
increase your rate 
payment 
rate 
[Hourly Payment Protection](LINK) 
10 
 
Escrow 
deposit funds 
transfer funds 
We hold funds in escrow until we release them to 
the other party based on the escrow instructions 
Freelancer/Talent 
role and business 
employee  
[staff/staffing](link to details] 
candidate 
applicant  
[career](Link to explanation] 
[people](link to details]] 
business owner 
contractor 
expert 
freelancer 
independent professional 
professional 
pro 
professional on Upwork 
talent 
independent talent  
Independent business  
business 
Freelancer 
onboarding 
application 
apply 
directive 
guidelines 
handbook 
employment/work policies 
procedures 
protocol 
rules 
[tools](link to details] 
submit bid/proposal  
submissions 
best practices 
contract 
industry standards 
profile 
proposal 
submit a proposal 
terms of service (for Upwork website) 
Freelancer history 
or experience  
evaluate 
evaluation 
review 
[performance](link to details] 
[resume/CV](link to details] 
client satisfaction 
client success 
job success 
freelancer rating 
feedback 
successful projects/outcomes 
successful client relationships 
User’s actions 
disintermediate 
disintermediation 
circumvent 
circumvention 
Upwork’s role 
intermediary 
[Upwork’s/our talent/people/talent](link to details] 
[suggest/recommend talent](LINK) 
website 
online marketplace 
freelancer and client work platform 
Enterprise Compliance 
marketplace 
talent choices 
talent to consider 
Work 
duties 
job description 
contract 
deliverables 
11 
 
job offer 
job title 
[role](link to details] 
describe the work 
project description 
scope of work 
services 
work description 
Type of work 
at will             on-call 
as needed         ongoing 
employment         position 
Indefinite          staffing 
 
These terms are generally avoided, but are 
permissible when talking about Payroll and 
Full-Time offerings: 
Permanent      exclusive          
full-time          staff augmentation 
long-term           
 
 
 
contracted hours           
working relationship        retainer agreement 
in between projects        undetermined end date 
larger project             undetermined contract term 
Catalog project      unspecified end date 
project                  unspecified contract term 
repeat client              unsure of end date  
repeat contract            alternative to staffing 
 
 
 
 
2.​
Terms to limit or vary 
 
 
 
Terms to limit or vary  
! denotes Legal approval will be needed 
Recommended Alternatives 
** denotes a usage note 
hire*  
get hired 
 
*please vary, but merely using “hire” will not require Legal review 
engage                 **even better - make the freelancer  
contract with            the active party to the action, e.g., 
select the proposal       “win a client”, “win the contract”  
award the job            instead of “get hired” 
! job* in connection with “hire” or “apply” (e.g., avoid apply for a 
job, or hire for a job) 
work                   **acceptable but not preferred 
project                  submit a proposal for a job 
contract                accept a job 
engagement               
! recruit 
! recruiter 
find talent 
network 
networker 
source talent 
talent sourcer 
! timesheets 
track your own hours 
log your hours 
record your hours 
invoice your clients 
bill your clients 
! pause contract  
! “fire” freelancer  
 
end the contract 
work when you want 
in between projects 
pause billing 
12 
 
! full-time in connection with “job” or “work” 
! part-time 
you can freelance full-time 
large project 
small project 
short project 
! workday 
! workweek 
billing/invoicing/payment period 
billing/invoicing/payment cycle 
business day 
 
 
 
 
3.​
Details on restricted terms 
 
 
 
❌ Avoid 
Terminology Insights 
✅ Examples of Alternatives 
Career 
This is typically used to describe employment, 
whereas independent talent have businesses 
 
Compromise: “Independent career,” but please limit 
business 
freelance business 
freelance career 
independent career 
 
●​ If you’re looking for a home where your independent 
business will thrive, we invite you to join us. 
●​ If you’re looking for a home where you will thrive… 
●​ If you’re looking for a home where your career as an 
independent professional will thrive... 
 
Manage 
Talent are independent. In other words, independent 
talent have control over their lives and work schedules 
because they manage themselves. Clients do not 
manage them. 
 
Usage note: You can use “manage” to talk about a 
program, e.g., “manage your freelance program with 
Upwork” 
●​ Our Enterprise Suite is a powerful platform for hiring, 
partnering with, and scaling talent… 
●​ The Enterprise Suite platform lets you manage your 
whole program from a single centralized hub. 
●​ The Enterprise Suite platform lets you see/track all 
of them from a single centralized hub. 
Our talent 
Our people 
Our talent 
We should never imply that the independent talent who 
uses the Upwork platform works for Upwork. Talent 
who use the Upwork platform work for themselves and 
use the Upwork platform to grow their independent 
businesses. 
●​ You will find that many of the talent/talent here have 
been in our community for more than 5 years… 
●​ You will find that many of the talent on Upwork… 
●​ You will find that many of the professionals on 
Upwork... 
People [in 
reference to 
talent] 
Using people to describe the talent on Upwork limits 
the scope of the marketplace. The talent on Upwork 
are agencies, independent professionals, corporations, 
and LLCs. 
●​ You’ll be surprised at the kind of talent you will find 
on Upwork. 
●​ We can’t begin to express the gratitude we have for 
our community 
Performance 
Avoid referring to a freelancer’s past work as their 
performance. Instead, talk about a freelancer’s 
success, successful project outcomes, or something 
similar. Avoid the combinations like “performance and 
“monitor performance.” 
●​ We’ll analyze your needs and use our powerful 
engine to find people that have the right skills, 
experience, and work history. 
●​ We’ll analyze your needs and use our powerful 
engine to find people that have the right skills and 
13 
 
 
Usage note: You can use performance in other 
contexts, like the performance of software or anything 
other than the above. 
experience and a history of happy clients. 
Resume/ 
CV 
Resumes/CVs commonly describe employment. It is 
better to use terms such as “profile” or “proposal” 
depending on the context. 
●​ Clients on Upwork can view talent profiles that will 
introduce talent’s business, highlight their 
expertise… 
●​ Talent on Upwork can submit a proposal to clients 
on Upwork... 
Role 
"Role" is an employment term and signifies 
exclusivity, whereas independent professionals seek 
to work on projects or contracts and may work with 
whomever they would like 
●​ Independent professionals can meet clients and 
work on projects…​
 
●​ Independent talent grow their businesses on 
Upwork working on contracts that appeal to them.  
●​ If you have a need for design services, find a 
freelancer on Upwork. 
Staffing 
Upwork is not a staffing company. Staffing agencies 
and the staffing industry are governed by very specific 
laws.  
 
Usage note: We can say that we are an “alternative to 
staffing” 
 
 
●​ We are not a staffing agency, but clients can meet 
all of the needs they typically go to a staffing agency 
to meet.   
○​
"We are better than staffing" — we have 
higher NPS, higher quality talent is on 
Upwork, speed to engage is shorter, and 
cost is lower.   
○​
Clients can use Upwork as an alternative 
by re-thinking "roles" to be more 
IC-friendly, by engaging talent 
internationally, or by using Upwork Payroll 
●​ “Staffing" can only be used to describe services 
closely in connection with Upwork Payroll.  
○​
E.g., if you say "use Upwork for your 
staffing needs", that needs to be about 
Upwork Payroll. Not just include a fine 
print caveat that Upwork Payroll is 
available. 
Suggest or 
recommend 
a freelancer 
We cannot say that Upwork is “recommending” or 
"suggesting" specific talent to clients. 
 
Upwork is not a provider or staffing vendor and we 
cannot guarantee the talent's capabilities.  
●​
We can offer clients choices of talent to 
consider 
●​
We can show talent based on client behavior 
(like previous hires or search queries) as long 
as we clarify why we are showing this talent. 
●​
We can recommend or suggest catalog 
projects to clients, but we should take care 
when doing so. For example, if the client 
posts a job for a graphic designer, we can 
show them related catalog projects.  
Tools 
“Tools” has a specific meaning in employment law, and 
we need to be careful we don’t say we provide “tools” 
to talent to do their work. For example, we can’t 
provide a designer with a design tool, or a writer with 
Microsoft Word, or a CS agent with a phone line. 
Those are tools that are used to complete the work. 
 
It’s better to use resources, informational materials, 
●​ Talent have access to many resources to run their 
freelance business on Upwork 
●​ Join this webinar for information and tips on running 
your business 
14 
 
or similar terms. 
 
 
4.​
Technical Stuff 
UPWK. Since we are a publicly traded company, we have to be very deliberate about 
what financial information we share. Therefore, any new statistic that isn’t already 
public needs to be run by our Investor Relations & Legal teams. Examples: Number of 
users that sign up, average price per contract, number of contracts, number or 
percentage of individuals on the platform Upwork uses for its own business (i.e., TIP 
workers). 
Rate setting and price fixing. We don’t, and never should, do anything that looks like 
we are setting the rates charged by talent. When we share market data to help 
customers make more informed decisions, we need to be clear that all we are doing is 
sharing market data. 
Customer logos and photos. As a general matter, we need permission to use any 
customer or third-party photo, name, logo, music or art in our marketing materials. 
Some Enterprise customers have already given us permission. But in any instance 
where we do not already have explicit consent, reach out to Legal for advice on what 
you need to do to get permission in any specific case. 
Population-focused marketing. While uplifting and focusing on particular populations in 
marketing can be great, there are certain do’s and don’ts to keep in mind.  Don’t ask 
users for and don’t track legally protected class information (e.g., race, religion, 
sexual-orientation, etc.).  What you can do is ask targeted groups (e.g., top-rated 
talent, rising talent, etc.) if they would like to participate in population-focused 
campaigns, and provide a checklist of potential campaigns for them to opt-in to.  You 
will also want to ask them to provide the reason(s) for their interest so you can 
appropriately determine eligibility for your campaign.   
Coalitions, Associations, Group Acronyms. We must avoid using the names of any 
formal associated groups or acronyms that could be confused for these entities.  Even 
if we make up a name (e.g., the “Future of Work Coalition”) we need to check and 
ensure no such group actually exists that corresponds with that name.  We also want 
to make sure no group actually exists with a different name, but that uses the same 
acronym as the made up group name (e.g.  if there was a group called the “Free 
15 
 
Workers’ Committee,” that wouldn’t conflict with “Future of Work Coalition” but the 
acronym for the real group and the made up group would: “FWC”). 
Tax & legal advice. We can’t provide legal or tax advice to our users. But sometimes it 
might be important to give tips or pointers. If we need to do this, we need to include a 
disclaimer, such as: 
Each state’s laws are different, so be sure to consult a local attorney so they can 
explain your state’s rules and regulations to you before making a decision. 
This article does not address all tax issues for talent, and you should not rely on 
it as legal advice. We strongly encourage readers to seek tax advice based on 
their particular circumstances from an independent tax advisor. 
Freelance writer Inamul Karim submitted this story, and it reflects his views and 
opinions. This article does not constitute the views or opinions of Upwork, nor 
does Upwork sponsor or endorse the views of the author. 
5.​
Accuracy & Promises 
Look, we get it. You all love Upwork. We do too—but we can’t let that love lead to 
overpromising or overshadow the fine print. Accuracy is the word—don’t oversell and 
don’t make promises or guarantees.  
For example, our payment protection program is a membership perk that has several 
requirements and exclusions—it is not a payment guarantee. We know, “we guarantee 
payment” sounds amazing—but it isn’t accurate. In fact, “Hourly Payment Protection” 
requires talent to meet eight separate criteria. If you really want to say “We protect your 
payments,” then you’ll need to include “See details” as well. 
Likewise, we can never promise that a client and freelancer are going to have a great 
outcome. There are just too many factors we don’t have visibility into or any control 
over. That said, we can accurately talk about how successful most outcomes are on 
Upwork: “X% of clients would recommend Upwork to a friend.” (when based on actual 
evidence; though you may need to get approval from Investor Relations and Legal if 
the stat hasn’t been disclosed before). 
We also have to be careful when using comparative and superlative language (“better 
than,” “faster than,” “the best,” etc.).  While consumers often recognize that this type of 
language is what is known as “puffery” and not necessarily a scientifically, 
16 
 
data-backed promise, it is always better if the statement is backed up by something. 
We do not want to overpromise. Are we saying that a new feature results in more 
profile views? Let’s make sure we have some data backing that up and we are being 
clear about what is being compared.   
Finally, we must be particularly cautious if we are ever comparing Upwork to its 
competitors.  Such statements should be particularly fact-based if used as the risk of 
repercussions from inaccurate statements is much higher than it would be when just 
comparing new and old features of the Upwork platform. 
6.​
Trademark Principles 
A trademark is a word or string of words registered or otherwise established by use to 
represent a particular company or product. One way to establish trademark protection 
is to register the mark, another way is by first developing “secondary meaning” in a 
phrase, which essentially means that a company develops a new, distinct meaning to a 
word or phrase that may already have meaning in common language by using it in 
commercial use to the point that consumers associate the phrase with that company. 
Famous examples include “Apple” as a company name and “Just Do It” (Nike) or “I’m 
Lovin’ It” (McDonald’s) as company mottos. A trademark holder can enforce their mark 
against other companies who may try to market their services through use of the mark 
(i.e. if Wendy’s tried to use “I’m Lovin’ It”). 
Upwork has established trademarks over “Upwork,” “Up We Go,” “Headroom,” “Work 
Without Limits,” “Work Differently,” “Talent Cloud,” “Private Talent Cloud,” “Elance,” 
“Elancer,” and “oDesk”. We are also claiming trademark rights over other marks, 
including “This Is How We Work Now,” and “Upwork It.”  In order to preserve these 
trademarks, we need to adhere to the following principles for use and flexible use of 
Upwork’s marks. … 
The following pointers apply to the use of all trademarks at Upwork: 
●​ Use the ® symbol with the first use in an asset of a registered trademark, such 
as Upwork.  
●​ Use the ™ symbol for those where we are seeking trademark status but have 
not yet obtained it through registration, such as TIHWWN, Project Catalog, and 
Virtual Talent Bench.   
●​ Use consistent font or sentence structure (such as title case) across usage for 
the same mark where possible in assets.  
17 
 
●​ If using the mark as a sentence (i.e. “This is how we work now.”), always put the 
™ at the end, even if it’s not the first usage in the asset. 
 
Please consult the following important guidelines when using variations of the 
TIHWWN brand mark: 
​If your asset uses “This is how…now”, with different wording than “we work” in 
the middle, we need to include a reference to the full TIHWWN phrasing in close 
proximity in the same asset. You can either: 
​Write out “This is how we work now™” and then mock it up by striking 
through the words you’re replacing and adding them in subscript on top. 
So for Example 3 above, we would write, “This is how we work now™”, 
then cross out “work” and add in subscript above it “hire full time”.  
​Use your variation first and later in the asset (often right afterwards) add, 
This is how we work now™.” So, to comply with this guideline, Example 1 
would become: “This is how we CEO now. This is how we work now™.” 
​If your asset only uses 3 or less words from TIHWWN, such as “This is how” or 
“how __ works,” with no other reference to or words from TIHWWN or 
replacement of other TIHWWN words, it is approved to move forward without a 
requirement for a specific reference to TIHWWN in the same asset (but it doesn’t 
hurt to add it!). Here is an example that mostly is fine based on this guideline, 
but due to the last usage, “how the Fortune 500 works now,” we would need to 
end with “This is how we work now™”: 
 
 
​If your asset is purely for internal purposes and will not be used externally for 
any purpose at any time, we have more flexibility and do not have to follow 
these guidelines as strictly as any use or asset for external purposes. 
By following these guidelines in our brand marketing, we can both protect our brand 
while driving it forward. 
18 
 
7.​AI Concerns 
Generative AI tools have already begun to revolutionize the tech and business world, 
but with these tools come a number of legal concerns:   
Content Creation 
If Upwork is responsible for the content, Upwork could be liable.  For that reason, we 
must always be sure that, when describing Gen AI tools, we describe them as just 
that–tools—that supplement and support the User’s own work, but do not replace it. 
So, in the example of a Gen AI tool that helps draft a proposal for a User, it is important 
that we don’t describe the tool as drafting the proposal for the user: “Provide some 
basic information and this tool will do the rest, leaving you with a ready-to-send 
proposal.” Instead, the Gen AI tool should always be a support and should be 
described as such: “Get a start on your proposal with some tips from this tool.” 
Intellectual Property Issues 
IP ownership has been one of the major concerns associated with AI tools. The 
concerns are two-fold:  
1.​
Whether the AI tools have or need rights to the content on which they are trained 
2.​
Whether and under what circumstances end-users can claim IP rights over 
content generated by genAI tools 
Our Terms of Service state that users are responsible for ensuring they own any IP 
rights to content they post or otherwise share through Upwork, including work-product. 
This is another reason users must retain control over all their content on Upwork. All 
Product features must ensure that Users: 
●​
Maintain control over the content 
●​
Maintain control over both inputs and outputs used in GenAI tools 
Bias Concerns 
If an AI tool has been trained on biased/discriminatory content, the entity responsible 
for the content could be liable for any discriminatory violations.  This again underlines 
the importance of maintaining user control over the ultimate content.  It also means 
19 
 
that we need to be careful and thoughtful when developing AI tools to ensure that they 
are not incorporating any biases, including implicit ones. 
Classification Concerns 
While AI tools can be useful in helping users perform their work, we must be careful to 
ensure that providing third-party AI tools to Users does not make freelancers who use 
the Upwork platform appear to be employees. To that end, Upwork’s own AI tools 
cannot be mandatory or direct user’s work too much. Independent contractors like the 
talent on our platform make their own business decisions, including the tools they will 
use to do their work. 
 
 
 
END 
20 
